Course: "Landscape Genomics"
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course17/

6-10 November, Berlin (Germany)

Application deadline is: October 6th, 2017.

https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course17/

Instructors:

1) Dr. St¨¦phane Joost ( Laboratory of Geographic Information System
   (LASIG), Swiss Federal Institute of Technology of Lausanne (EPFL)).
   Dr. Joost is specialized in the contribution of Geographic
   Information Science for the conservation of plant and animal genetic
   resources. He applies spatial statistics and geocomputation methods
   to conservation genetics and landscape genomics (https://www.physalia-
   courses.org/instructors/t13/) 

2) Oliver Salmoni, MSc (Laboratory of Geographic Information System
   (LASIG), Swiss Federal Institute of Technology of Lausanne (EPFL)).
   https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t24/

Course Overview:

Landscape genomics is an emerging research field that studies how genetic
diversity distributes across space and how environmental features can
modify this structure through local adaptation. In this workshop, students
will learn the basics of this approach and train using state of the art
methods. The course will provide an overview of the type of dataset that
can be used for a landscape genomics analysis. Firstly, students will
learn how to obtain environmental data from publicly available databases,
how to process it with Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and how to use
the latter to produce indicators able to describe the characteristics of
the landscape. Next, the course will discuss the different approaches to
obtain genetic data and subsequently show how to study genetic variation
and population structure across space in the R environment. Students will
be given an overview of the different statistical approaches to study
local adaptation, and will be trained in using two of them, Sambada and
LFMM. The course will also cover the critical task of the interpretation
and validation of the results. Finally, the workshop will consider the
crucial aspects and good habits to account for when planning a landscape
genomics experiment (e.g. sampling design).

Targeted Audience & Assumed Background:

This workshop is aimed at all biologists, ecologists, geneticists,
veterinarians that want to implement the landscape genomics approach in
their own studies of evolutionary biology and conservation. Even though
the course is not intended for a specialized audience, basic knowledge in
evolutionary biology and population genetics would help. Students will
learn how to use GIS, but basic computer skills are desirable (e.g. in
the R environment). A basic understanding of statistics is also necessary.

Teaching Format:

The course is organized in ten learning sessions. During the first two
sessions, the course will provide a contextualization of the research
field. Then, students will be guided through a landscape genomics
experiment with sessions that couple brief theoretical introductions
with practical work.

Session content:

Monday 6th ¨C Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 1-Introduction

-          Overview of the course program

-          Introduction on Landscape Genomics

-          Examples

Session 2 - Dataset

-          The environmental data

-          The genetic data

Tuesday 7th ¨C Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 3-Environmental Data 1

-          GIS basics

-          Main environmental databases

-          Derived environmental variables

Session 4- Environmental Data 2

-          Environmental characterization of the samples

-          Point versus surface

-          Analysis of environmental diversity of samples

Wednesday 8th ¨C Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 5- Genetic Data 1

-          Sequencing strategies

-          Data filtering

Session 6- Genetic Data 2

-          Spatial genetic variation

-          Population structure

Thursday 9th ¨C Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 7-Statistical Analysis

-          Overview of statistical methods (univariate, multivariate,
      w/wo population structure)

-          sam¦Âada: logistic regression

Session 8-Interpreting Results

-          Spatial autocorrleation

-          Process sam¦Âada output in R

-          Validation of results

Friday 10th ¨C Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 9- Planning a Landscape Genomics Experiment

-          Scale and Resolution

-          Sampling Design

Session 10-Conclusion

-          Take home messages

-          Question time

Available packages:

1) Course-only: includes course materials and refreshments (480 euros;
   VAT incl.)

2) All-inclusive: includes course materials, refreshments, meals
   (breakfast, lunch and dinner), accommodation (745 euros; VAT incl.)

The full list of our courses and Workshops:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>
