Dear colleagues, this is the first announcement for the International
Symposium "Speciation in Ancient Lakes 8" (SIAL 8) that will take place from
29 July 3 August, 2018 in Entebbe, Uganda. This will be the first time for
SIAL to be held in Africa and we are looking forward to celebrate the 25th
anniversary of SIAL at the shores of famous Lake Victoria. 

Host and Local Organizers: Mbarara University of Science and Technology,
Uganda (MUST) and Justus Liebig University Giessen, Germany (JLU).

The conference venue will be at Laico Lake Victoria:
laicohotels.com/laico-lake-victoria.

Organizers: Christian Albrecht (Germany), Björn Stelbrink (Germany) & Casim
Umba Tolo (Uganda).

Scientific committee: Andy Cohen (USA), Douglas Haffner (Canada), Koen
Martens (Belgium), Frank Riedel (Germany), James Russel (USA), Walter
Salzburger (Switzerland), Oleg Timoshkin (Russia), Risto Väinolä (Finland),
Bert Van Bocxlaer (France), Erik Verheyen (Belgium), Thomas von Rintelen
(Germany), Frank Wesselingh (The Netherlands) & Thomas Wilke (Germany).
Anticipated topics: Forgotten, neglected and not so ancient lakes; Ancient
lake conservation where are we?; Next generation approaches to ancient
lake topics; Comparative ancient lake studies; African issues; New horizons
in ancient lake research; Towards true speciation studies in ancient lakes;
A look into the past: Paleolakes and deep drilling projects; Parasites and
health issues & PRIDE evolution and biodiversity of Ponto-Caspian lake
systems.

More detailed information on registration, fees etc. will be provided at the
end of the year.

We would highly appreciate if you could participate and forward this
announcement to anybody interested in any ancient lake-related issues.

Website: sial-online.org/conferences/sial8

Contact: Christian.Albrecht@allzool.bio.uni-giessen.de

Björn Stelbrink <Bjoern.Stelbrink@allzool.bio.uni-giessen.de>

