The Centre for Biodiversity Dynamics (CBD) at the Norwegian University
of Science and Technology (NTNU) is pleased to announce that the Eighth
International Hole-Nesting Birds Conference will be held from October 30
to November 2, 2017 in Trondheim, Norway. The conference aims to bring
together leading academic scientists, researchers, research scholars and
citizen scientists to exchange and share their experiences in research
involving all aspects of hole-nesting birds.

The scientific program will consist of eight sessions for keynote
speakers and contributed speakers to present their latest research
results, ideas and challenges within the fields of population dynamics,
behaviour, physiology, life-history strategies, speciation, genetics,
dispersal and movement, and climate change.

In addition, there will be poster session, and a discussion session
that will allow attendees to discuss research plans and challenges in
parallel group sessions. A central focus will be to improve communication
and interactions between different groups working on hole-nesting birds
across Europe.

Deadline for registration and submission of abstracts for talks
and posters is August 31, 2017. The CBD will offer some grants that
provide financial support for some of those who may wish to attend the
conference. Those with financial need for travel and/or accommodation
may apply at the registration.

For more information, please visit the conference website:
https://www.ntnu.edu/hnb-conference

We are looking forward to seeing you all at the conference!

The Eighth International Hole-Nesting Birds Conference organizing
committee:
Bernt-Erik SÃ¦ther
Marcel E. Visser
Ben C. Sheldon
Stefan J.G. Vriend

Stefan Vriend <stefan.vriend@ntnu.no>

