*Understanding the genetic architecture of complex traits through 
SNP-based heritability analysis*

Date: Tuesday 5th September, University College London, 10-4pm

Tutors: Prof David Balding (Melbourne and UGI) and Dr Doug Speed (UGI)

Cost: 40 (or 30 for UCL Members)

Advance Registration is REQUIRED

https://www.eventbrite.com/e/ucl-genetics-short-course-methods-for-analysing-complex-trait-gwas-data-tickets-36314483598

*----
*

*Background: *In recent years there has been great progress in 
developing genome-wide statistical analyses for detecting causal 
variants, constructing prediction models and better understanding the 
genetic architecture of complex traits. However the underlying 
regression model involves very large numbers of predictors, and strong 
modelling assumptions are required to tackle the consequent problem of 
over-fitting. The results can be sensitive to these assumptions, and 
also to the effects of population structure, genotyping errors and the 
extent to which rare SNPs are included.

*Course outline: *We will cover mixed-model association analysis (e.g., 
Fast-LMM, GEMMA), risk prediction (e.g., polygenic risk scores, BLUP and 
MultiBLUP) and heritability analyses (GCTA, LDAK, LDSC), both using 
individual-level genetic data and summary statistics. We will emphasise 
the common elements of these methods, highlighting a standard framework 
that has emerged for genome-wide SNP analysis, while also contrasting 
the differences in underlying modelling assumptions.

The practicals will provide step-by-step details for analysing genetic 
data, starting either with indvidual-level data (e.g., PLINK files or 
the output from IMPUTE2) or summary statistics (p-values from a GWAS). 
There will be a selection of worked examples; to take part in the 
practicals, participants should bring a laptop with either MAC or LINUX OS

*Prerequisites:* Participants should be proficient in statistics 
including some familiarity with random-effects regression models. In 
genetics, knowledge of SNP genotypes and Hardy-Weinberg and linkage 
equilibrium will be assumed. Computer scripts and output will be 
discussed that assume some familiarity with scientific computing using 
linux. Some familiarity with PLINK would be helpful but is not essential.

**

*----

*Provisional Timetable*

*10:00 - 12:40: Lecture 1 followed by Practical 1*

Introduction to analysing GWAS data, including QC, single-SNP 
analysis,polygenic risk scores, mixed-model analysis and gene-based analysis

*12:40 - 13:20: Lunch*

*13.20-16:00: Lecture 2 followed by Practical 2*

Estimating heritability, bivariate correlations and enrichment of 
functional categories

Room details will be provided closer to the time; any questions, email 
doug.speed@ucl.ac.uk

Doug Speed <doug.speed@ucl.ac.uk>

