"Early-environment effects: Towards integrating theoretical and
empirical approaches"

Workshop, 18-21 July 2017, Arolla, Switzerland

Organizer: Barbara Taborsky

A workshop of the CUSO 'Doctoral Program in Ecology and Evolution'
(DPEE)

There is ample evidence that the environment organisms experience
during early development can shape their phenotype for lifetime, and
that these early environment effects can even be transmitted across
generations. In the past two decades the field of early environment
effects was dominated by empirical research. Recently an exciting body
of theoretical work has started to emerge modelling how direct
environmental, epigenetic and genetic information shapes the phenotypes
of developing organisms. Although, opposite to other areas in biology,
this novel theory is developed in close exchange with empiricists,
phenotypic development is still modelled at a high level of abstraction
ignoring the architecture of the physical substrate of development.
This workshop shall focus on effects of early experience on phenotypic
development in general, and the development of animal behaviour in
particular. It will bring together researchers of function and
mechanisms of early environment effects with theoreticians modelling
these effects. Invited speakers will give lectures about their field of
expertise (behavioural ecology, cognition, psychology, theory and
molecular brain mechanisms) followed by joint discussions with the
participants in small working groups. Questions discussed will involve,
among others, which kind of theory is required to aid the conceptual
development of future empirical research and, in turn, which kind of
data are needed to enhance the development of more predictive theory.
Further we will ask how to integrate molecular, neurological and
psychological mechanisms in theoretical models. A final discussion will
collect the ideas of all participants on these questions.

Invited Speakers

- Victoria Braithwaite, Penn State University, USA

- Sinead English, University of Cambridge, UK

- Tim Fawcett, University of Exeter, UK

- Bram Kuijper, University of Exeter, UK

- Olof Leimar, University of Stockholm, SE

- Suvi Ruuskanen, University of Turku, FIN

- Carmen Sandi, Ãƒcole Polytechnique Federale Lausanne (EPFL), CH

The workshop takes place at the Grand-H0tel 'Kurhaus' in a
breathtaking scenery amidst some of the finest mountain peaks of
Switzerland. The venue is situated above the picturesque mountain
village of Arolla, at 2100 m sea level in the very heart of the Swiss
high alps. We can host about 40 participants (including invited
speakers).

For more details on the program, the location, and attendance see
http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/index.php?pp=56&p=196

For further information please contact barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch

"barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch" <barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch>

