Dear all,

The Student Conference on Conservation Science (SCCS) - Bengaluru brings
together young researchers in the science and practice of biodiversity
conservation. The conference facilitates interaction, encourages exchange
of research ideas and methods, sharing of knowledge and experience related
to conserving wildlife and helps build contacts and capacity. As a sister
conference to SCCS-Cambridge, SCCS-Bengaluru focuses on attracting student
participants, primarily from countries in South and South-east Asia and
 Africa.

DATES:

The 2017 conference will be held at the JN Tata Auditorium, Indian
Institute of Science, Bengaluru, from 21st to 24th September 2017.

* Early Bird registrations and Abstract submissions are now open on
our website:
http://www.sccs-bng.org

* Abstract submissions are open for those who want to present either a talk
or a poster.

* Students need to register and pay the conference fee before being able to
submit an abstract.
* Deadline for submitting abstracts is 3 April 2017.

You can view the Conference Flyer here: https://goo.gl/LF0Hsh

SCCS-Bengaluru is a four-day conference, where you can look forward to a
host of long and short workshops (which are research focused and equip
students with skills required for conservation), plenary talks by invited
speakers, close to 25+ student talks and about 80 student poster
presentations.
Read the 2016 report here: https://goo.gl/LF0Hsh

We will also have sessions on 'Who's Who in Conservation' and 'Birds of a
Feather' for students to learn about the work done by a diversity of
academic institutions and conservation organisations, to discover work and
research opportunities they offer, and to network with students and
scientists working on similar issues. Based on feedback from previous years
we are working towards a slightly new format for this year's conference, so
do keep a lookout for our announcements via email, our website, Facebook
<https://www.facebook.com/sccsbangalore> and Twitter
<https://twitter.com/sccsbng>.

For further information don't hesitate to contact us at sccs@sccs-bng.org.

Warm regards,

Shreekant Deodhar

Conference Administrator

On behalf of the Organizing Committee of SCCS-Bengaluru 2017

(Abinand Reddy, Abishek Harihar, Arshiya Bose, Kavita Isvaran, Krishnapriya
Tamma, Ravi Chellam, Shomen Mukherjee and Tarsh Thekaekara)

SCCS - Bangalore <sccs@sccs-bng.org>

