Applications are now open for the 2017 Summer Workshop "Making Meaning
through Models: Problem solving in biology" to be held July 23-28 at
Michigan State University.  More information about the workshop is
available here: https://qubeshub.org/groups/summer2017  or see the attached
flier.

Modeling is a key tool in the evolutionary biology tool box, and helping
students to develop modeling skills as early in their career allows deeper
exploration of evolutionary concepts. At this summer's workshop we will
delve into how to engage our students more productively with models and the
process of modeling.  Join us as we consider how to enhance the skills
students need to understand and build models, how to expand upon models
already in our curriculum, and ultimately how to enhance student
understanding of the nature and process of science with modeling.  We will
discuss effective pedagogical approaches, share excellent resources, and
build community around effective use of models.  The intensive week-long
workshop is followed by the opportunity to continue to work with colleagues
on the QUBESHub through the fall semester to develop and implement new
approaches or materials.

The summer workshop is appropriate for two and four year faculty teaching
all levels of undergraduate biology, quantitative biology, and life
science-oriented mathematics.  We encourage future faculty, full and part
time faculty and teams of faculty from the same or affiliated institutions
to apply.  Please share this information with any of your colleagues who
might be interested!

-- 
Kristin P. Jenkins, PhD
Director

BioQUEST Curriculum Consortium
bioquest.org
(608) 622.9394

kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org

