Bioinformatics for geneticists and biologists (BIGB02)
Delivered by Dr Nic Blouin and Dr Ian Misner

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/bioinformatics-for-geneticists-and-biologists-bigb02/

This course will run from 3rd - 7th July 2017 at SCENE Field Station,
Loch Lomond, Glasgow

OVERVIEW
The handling of large datasets has become intractable without some
level of bioinformatic literacy. Many biologists find that there is a
steep learning curve to develop the confidence required to explore
their genomics datasets effectively. This bioinformatics short course
includes a rich collection of hands-on instruction and lectures
specifically intended to help novice users become comfortable with a
range of tools currently used to analyse next-generation data.

INTENDED AUDIENCE
The course is aimed at anyone interested in learning bioinformatics
tools needed for handling large genomic datasets.

Course content is as follows

Monday 3rd
Module 1: Linux.
Linux is taught on the first day, this takes the entire day. Once you
get through this portion you will be on your way to completing your own
NGS analysis. We have created a workbook for this portion of the
course. This is a step-by-step, or in the case, command-by-command,
Linux guide. We complete each command as a class and discuss and review
issues along the way.

Tuesday 4th
Module 2: RNAseq.
We will cover two of the more popular tools in this workshop, The
Tuxedo package & Trinity. Outcomes; Confidence to design effective
RNAseq experiments. Knowledge of NGS sequencing platforms and their
differing applications, ability to analyze Illumina data for quality
and contamination. Proficiency to implement the Tuxedo package to
analyze an RNAseq dataset.Create publication ready graphics with
cummeRbund and EdgeR.

Wednesday 5th
Module 3: Assembly.
Whether you have a reference genome or are working with de novo samples
there are some basic tools and practices that we cover to help assist
you in your genome project. In this module we will cover the basic
metrics you should review when doing assembly as well as best practices
to consider in your own project. Outcomes; Take raw reads through a
complete assembly process. Working knowledge of different assembly
issues/challenges. The effect of assembly settings on assembly
outcomes.

Thursday 6th
Module 4: Annotation.
We will use MAKER and Blast2GO and annotate the genome we assembled in
the assembly module. Outcomes; Understand the differences between
functional and structural annotations. Train MAKER to improve
structural annotations. Understand how MAKER improves with more
evidence and training; visualize structural annotations. Apply
functional annotations with Blast2GO.

Friday 7th
Module 5: Python.
Why Python? In truth it doesn't matter what coding language you learn
but you should learn one. Python has a very straightforward syntax that
is easy to understand. In this module we will utilise the clearly
explained training examples from Python for Biologists. Outcomes;
Understand Python language syntax. Create scripts to answer biological
problems & parse and analyse BLAST outputs using custom Python code.

Please email any inquiries to oliverhooker@informatics.com or visit our
website www.prinformatics.com
Please feel free to distribute this material anywhere you feel is
suitable.

1.       CODING, DATA MANAGEMENT AND SHINY APPLICATIONS USING RSTUDIO
FOR EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS #CDSR

15th - 19th May, Scotland Dr. Aline Quadros

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/coding-data-management-and-shiny-ap
plications-using-rstudio-for-evolutionary-biologists-and-ecologists-cds
r01/

2.       BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOLOGISTS #BIGB

3rd - 7th July 2017, Scotland, Dr. Nic Blouin, Dr. Ian Misner

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/bioinformatics-for-geneticists-and-
biologists-bigb02/

3.       INTRODUCTION TO BIOINFORMATICS USING LINUX #IBUL

16th - 20th October, Scotland, Dr. Martin Jones

http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-bioinformatics-using
-linux-ibul02/

4.       INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS #IPYB

27th Nov - 1st Dec, Wales, Dr. Martin Jones

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/introduction-to-python-for-biologis
ts-ipyb04/

5.       DATA VISUALISATION AND MANIPULATION USING PYTHON #DVMP

11th - 15th December 2017, Wales, Dr. Martin Jones

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/data-visualisation-and-manipulation
-using-python-dvmp01/

6.       EUKARYOTIC METABARCODING

20^th - 24^th January 2018, Scotland, Dr. Owen Wangensteen

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/eukaryotic-metabarcoding-eukb01/

Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prinformatics.com>

