2017 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2017)
26-30 June 2017
Montpellier, France
https://gcc2017.sciencesconf.org/
--

The oral presentation submission deadline for GCC2017 has been extended to
29 April. If you work in or support data intensive life science research
then GCC2017 is an ideal opportunity to present your work. Posters and
computer demonstration submissions close 27 May and lightning talk
submissions close 23 June.

The 2017 Galaxy Community Conference will bring together several hundred
researchers working in and supporting data intensive life science research.
There is no better place to share your work and learn from others that are
addressing diverse questions and facing common challenges in data intensive
biology. GCC participants work across the tree of life, come from around
the world, and represent universities, research organizations, industry,
medical schools and research hospitals.

GCC2017 will be in Montpellier, France, 26-30 June and will feature two
days of presentations, discussions, poster sessions, lightning talks,
computer demos, keynotes, and birds-of-a-feather meetups, all about
data-intensive biology and the tools that support it. GCC2017 also includes
data and coding hackathons, and two days of training covering 16 different
topics.  GCC2017 will be held at Le Corum Conference Centre in the heart of
Montpellier, just 10km from the Mediterranean.

Early registration is also open and starts at less than 55â‚¬ / day for
post-docs and students. You can also book low cost conference housing when
you register. Travel fellowships are being offered by the Galaxy Community
Fund for early career researchers that are travelling from afar.

About Galaxy
Galaxy (https://galaxyproject.org/) is an open, web-based platform for
data-intensive biomedical analysis used by tens of thousands of researchers
around the world.  It supports ad hoc exploration and analysis through
scalable and repeatable data analysis pipelines for large research studies.
Galaxy is available in over 90 free and publicly accessible web servers, on
public and national cloud infrastructures, and is locally installed at
hundreds, if not thousands, of research organisations around the world.

We hope to see you this summer in Montpellier!

Au revoir,

The GCC2017 Organising Committee

https://galaxyproject.org/
https://getgalaxy.org/
https://usegalaxy.org/
https://gcc2017.sciencesconf.org/

clementsgalaxy@gmail.com

