Dear Friends/Colleagues,

There will be a meeting on the systematics and evolution of weevils
(The 2016 International Weevil Meeting) held immediately after
the International Congress of Entomology (ICE) in Orlando, FL, on Oct.  
1-3, 2016. The meeting will be of broad interest to insect evolutionary
biologists and systematists interested in plant-herbivore systems,
especially those working on beetles. General topics covered will
include macroevolution and ecology, biogeography, phylogeny,
morphology, and classification. It will consist of a series of invited
and contributed talks, and organized discussions of research
priorities, goals and methods. Beyond catalyzing new evolutionary and
systematics research and collaboration, we seek to provide a forum for
identifying priorities and goals for the community of
researchers/students who study or otherwise have an interest in
weevils, and in identifying areas of research of broader interest to
evolutionary biologists interested in plant herbivores and
host-herbivore interactions.

Pre-registration for the 2016 International Weevil Meeting will close
at the end of the day on Friday, 26 August 2016. On-site registration
will be available on the evening of Sept. 30, on a first-come,
first-served basis (space permitting). Registration is free, but space
is limited, so please register as soon as possible. If you have already
submitted your registration, a space has been reserved for you. A final
program for the meeting will be sent to registered participants via
email in September. Please feel free to forward this email to students
and colleagues who may be interested in attending.

You can find the preliminary program at the following links:
http://ice2016orlando.org/about/co-located-events/
http://entsoc.org/PDF/2016/2016InternationalWeevilMeeting.pdf

Dave

Dave Clarke <dclarke@fieldmuseum.org>

