Nantucket phylogeny developeR bootcamp

We are happy to announce a new graduate-level workshop on phylogenetic 
method development R. The course will be five days in length and will 
take place at the University of Massachusetts Boston's Nantucket Field 
Station from the 22nd to the 26th of August, 2016. This workshop is 
primarily intended for evolutionary biologists with some prior 
experience in computer programming who have an interest in participating 
more fully in the community of method developers for the R statistical 
computing environment in phylogenetics.

On the first 1.5 days of the workshop, course leaders Drs. April Wright 
and Klaus Schliep (with Dr. Liam Revell participating remotely) will 
provide an introduction to the primary data structures and methods of 
common phylogenetic R packages, the basics of computational algorithms 
for phylogenies, and an overview of package development in R, along with 
other essential topics that will depend on the prior experience of the 
bootcamp participants. Over subsequent workshop days participants will 
work in groups to develop small R packages on their chosen topics. These 
projects will focus on adding new functionality to existing R software 
in phylogenetics, and might range from tree manipulation, to 
phylogenetic inference, to comparative methods, to phylogenetic 
simulations, to the visualization of phylogenies or macroevolutionary 
data on trees.

The workshop is funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation 
to Dr. Liam Revell, with additional support from the University of 
Massachusetts Boston. All accepted students will be offered a stipend to 
cover or defray travel costs to and from Nantucket, and room and board 
during the workshop will be provided. As the workshop will be held at a 
field station, accommodation is comfortable, but basic, and participants 
should be prepared to stay in multiple occupancy rooms.

To apply for the course, please fill the google form 
(http://goo.gl/forms/4m5ILAGfzRihe9jS2) and submit your CV along with a 
short (1 page) description of your research interests and your reasons 
for participating in the workshop. Details of relevant programming 
background (computer languages, R knowledge, GitHub repositories, ...) 
should also be provided. Admission is competitive, and preference will 
go towards students with background in evolutionary biology, basic to 
moderate experience in computer programming, and a compelling motivation 
for taking the course. Applications should be submitted the google form 
(http://goo.gl/forms/4m5ILAGfzRihe9jS2) by July 15th, 2016. Questions 
can be directed to klaus.schliep@umb.edu.

For an HTML version of this advertisement, please see: 
http://www.phangorn.org/pages/Nantucket.html

Liam J. Revell, Associate Professor of Biology
University of Massachusetts Boston
web: http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/
email: liam.revell@umb.edu
blog: http://blog.phytools.org

Liam.Revell@umb.edu

