MCEB - Mathematical and Computational Evolutionary Biology, 12-16 June 2017
Porquerolles Island, South of France.

Pre-registration deadline extended to March 6th 2017
Using the web site: http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/

Notification to applicants: March 17th

Final list of attendees: April 17th

Scope: Mathematical and computational tools and concepts form an
essential basis for modern evolutionary studies. The goal of the MCEB
conference (at its 9th edition) is to bring together scientists with
diverse backgrounds to present recent advances and discuss open
problems in the field of mathematical and computational evolutionary
biology. The theme of this year's edition will be "Methods for
integrative evolutionary biology: various sources of data, various
scales of evolution", which includes the analysis of heterogeneous data
(molecular, phenotypic, ecological...), different time scales (from
recent times to the origin of life), different spatial scales (from
local to worldwide range), the combination of phylogenetics and
population genetics, multidisciplinary approaches, etc.. General
concepts, models, methods and algorithms will also be presented and
discussed, just as during the previous conference editions.

Cost: Conference fees including accommodation for four nights, meals,
coffee breaks, etc., will be around 450 euros, all inclusive. PhD
students and postdocs would benefit of financial support.

Keynote speakers:

-         Elizabeth Allman (Department of Mathematics and Statistics,
University of Alaska Fairbanks)

-         Guy Baele (Rega Institute / KU Leuven - Evolutionary and
Computational Virology Section)

-         Stephane Dray (Laboratoire de Biometrie et Biologie
Evolutive (LBBE), Lyon)

-         Barbara Holland (Theoretical Phylogenetics Group, School of
Mathematics and Physics, University of Tasmania)

-         Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas (Institute of Ecology and Evolution,
University of Bern)

-         Yun Song (Calabi-Simons Chair in Mathematics and Biology,
Departments of Mathematics and Biology, University of Pennsylvania)

-         Marc Suchard (David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA,
Departments of Biomathematics, Biostatistics and Human Genetics)

Olivier  GASCUEL <olivier.gascuel@pasteur.fr>

