* Venue: Fort Lauderdale REC, Davie, Florida

* Contact: Mathieu Basille (basille@ufl.edu)

* Instructors: Simona Picardi, David Bucklin & Mathieu Basille (UF WEC)

* Guest lecturers: Anne Berger (Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife
Research, Germany), Hamish Campbell (Charles Darwin University, Australia),
Francesca Cagnacci (Fondazione Edmund Mach, Italy) & Ferdinando Urbano
(Independent researcher, Italy)

* Attendance: Reserved for Natural Resource managers (for a fee) and UF
students (with tuition waiver). Limited seats are available on a first come
- first served basis. Natural Resource managers, please register on
Eventbrite.com [1].

* More info on: http://ase-research.org/training/PostGIS_2017/

Recent technological progress has allowed ecologists to obtain a huge
amount and diversity of animal movement data sets of increasing spatial and
temporal resolution and size, together with complex associated information
related to the environmental context, such as habitat types based on remote
sensing, population density, and weather. Based on several years of
experience on multiple species, this intensive five-day workshop is
designed to teach participants how to handle, manage, store and retrieve
movement data in a spatial database, and how to eventually feed them to
analysis tools. In the first part of the course, participants will be
exposed to basics of spatial databases for wildlife tracking data, using
PostgreSQL/PostGIS, the reference free and open-source database system. The
second part will focus on the integration of environmental data in the
process. The third part will tackle the specifics of movement data, and how
to connect the database to the R statistical environment for analysis. Step
by step, using reproducible, hands-on exercises that will be released
on-line, we will provide a complete and seamless procedure from raw data to
final analysis that will enable participants to fully manage and integrate
complex animal movement data sets. Although the workshop is intended for a
wide audience, basic knowledge of SQL, spatial databases and R are highly
recommended to get the best experience.

Participants will have to bring their own laptop computers, with necessary
software installed (instructions for open-source software will be provided).

Reference: Urbano, F. & Cagnacci, F. (ed.) (2014) Spatial Database for GPS
Wildlife Tracking Data: A Practical Guide to Creating a Data Management
System with PostgreSQL/PostGIS and R. Springer, 257 pp. DOI:
10.1007/978-3-319-03743-1

-- 

Mathieu Basille

basille@ufl.edu | http://ase-research.org/basille
+1 954-577-6314 | University of Florida FLREC

  « Le tout est de tout dire, et je manque de mots
  Et je manque de temps, et je manque d'audace. »
    Paul Éluard

"basille@ufl.edu" <basille@ufl.edu>

