Introductionto Bioinformatics using LINUX

http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-bioinformatics-using-linux-ibul02/

Instructor:Dr. Martin Jones

Thiscourse will run from 16th - 20th October at SCENE (the Scottish 
Centrefor Ecology and the Natural Environment), Loch Lomond National 
Park,Glasgow.

Courseoverview: Most high-throughput bioinformatics work these days 
takesplace on the Linux command line. The programs which do the 
majorityof the computational heavy lifting ¡X genome assemblers, read 
mappers,and annotation tools ¡X are designed to work best when used 
witha command-line interface. Because the command line can be an 
intimidatingenvironment, many biologists learn the bare minimum needed 
toget their analysis tools working. This means that they miss out on 
thepower of Linux to customize their environment and automate many 
partsof the bioinformatics workflow. This course will introduce the 
Linuxcommand line environment from scratch and teach students how to 
makethe most of its tools to achieve a high level of productivity when 
workingwith biological data.

Availability:15 places total.

Courseprogramme
Monday16th ¡V Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 (approximately)
¡´Session 1 - The design of Linux
Inthe first session we briefly cover the design of Linux: how is it 
differentfrom Windows/OSX and how is it best used? We'll then jump 
straightonto the command line and learn about the layout of the Linux 
filesystemand how to navigate it. We'll describe Linux's file 
permissionsystem (which often trips up beginners), how paths work, and 
howwe actually run programs on the command line. We'll learn a few 
tricksfor using the command line more efficiently, and how to deal with 
programsthat are misbehaving. We'll finish this session by looking at 
thebuilt in help system and how to read and interpret manual pages.

¡´Session 2 - System management
We'llfirst look at a few command line tools for monitoring the status 
ofthe system and keeping track of what's happening to processor power, 
memory,and disk space. We'll go over the process of installing new 
softwarefrom the built in repositories (which is easy) and from source 
codedownloads (which is trickier). We'll also introduce some tools for 
benchmarkingsoftware (measuring the time/memory requirements of 
processinglarge datasets).

Tuesday17th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 (approximately)

¡´Session 3 - Manipulating tabular data
Manydata types we want to work with in bioinformatics are stored as 
tabularplain text files, and here we learn all about manipulating 
tabulardata on the command line. We'll start with simple things like 
extractingcolumns, filtering and sorting, searching for text before 
movingon to more complex tasks like searching for duplicated values, 
summarizinglarge files, and combining simple tools into long commands.

¡´Session 4 - Constructing pipelines
Inthis session we will look at the various tools Linux has for 
constructingpipelines out of individual commands. Aliases, shell 
redirection,pipes, and shell scripting will all be introduced here. 
We'llalso look at a couple of specific tools to help with running tools 
onmultiple processors, and for monitoring the progress of long running 
tasks.

Wednesday18th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 (approximately)

¡´Session 5 ¡V EMBOSS
EMBOSSis a suite of bioinformatics command-line tools explicitly 
designedto work in the Linux paradigm. We'll get an overview of the 
differentsequence data formats that we might expect to work with, and 
putwhat we learned about shell scripting to biological use by building 
apipeline to compare codon usage across two collections of DNA 
sequences.

¡´Session 6 ¡V Using a Linux server
Oftenin bioinformatics we'll be working on a Linux server rather than 
ourown computer¡X typically because we need access to more computing 
power,or to specialized tools and datasets. In this session we'll learn 
howto connect to a Linux server and how to manage sessions. We'll also 
considerthe various ways of moving data to and from a server from your 
owncomputer, and finish with a discussion of the considerations we have 
tomake when working on a shared computer.

Thursday19th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 (approximately)

¡´Session 7 ¡V Combining methods
Inthe next two sessions ¡X i.e. one full day ¡X we'll put everything 
wehave learned together and implement a workflow for next-gen sequence 
analysis.In this first session we'll carry out quality control on some 
paired-endIllumina data and map these reads to a reference genome. 
We'llthen look at various approaches to automating this pipeline, 
allowingus to quickly do the same for a second dataset.

¡´Session 8 ¡V Combining methods
Thesecond part of the next-gen workflow is to call variants to identify 
SNPsbetween our two samples and the reference genome. We'll look at the 
VCFfile format and figure out how to filter SNPs for read coverage and 
quality.By counting the number of SNPs between each sample and the 
referencewe will try to figure out something about the biology of the 
twosamples. We'll attempt to automate this analysis in various ways so 
thatwe could easily repeat the pipeline for additional samples.

Friday20th - Classes from 09:00 to 16:00 (approximately)

¡´Session 9 ¡V Customization
Partof the Linux design is that everything can be customized. This can 
beintimidating at first but, given that bioinformatics work is often 
fairlyrepetitive, can be used to good effect. Here we'll learn about 
environmentvariables, custom prompts, soft links, and ssh configuration 
¡X a collection of tools with modest capabilities, but which together 
canmake life on the command line much more pleasant. In this last 
sessionthere will also be time to continue working on the next-gen 
sequencingpipeline.

Theafternoon of Friday 20th is reserved for finishing off the next-gen 
workflowexercise, working on your own datasets, or leaving early for 
travel.

Pleasesend inquiries to oliverhooker@prstatistics.com or visit the 
websitewww.prstatistics.com

Pleasefeel free to distribute this information anywhere you think 
suitable.

Upcomingcourses - email for details oliverhooker@prstatistics.com

1.	ADVANCEDPYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (February 2017) #APYB
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/advanced-python-biologists-apyb01/

2.	STABLEISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR, SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R 
(February2017) #SIMM
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/stable-isotope-mixing-models-using-r-simm03/

3.	NETWORKANAYLSIS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING R (March 2017) #NTWA
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/network-analysis-ecologists-ntwa01/

4.	ADVANCESIN MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF SPATIAL ECOLOGICAL DATA (April 
2017)#MVSP
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/advances-in-spatial-analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-data-theory-and-practice-mvsp02/

5.	INTRODUCTIONTO STATISTICS AND R FOR BIOLOGISTS (April 2017) #IRFB
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-statistics-and-r-for-biologists-irfb02/

6.	ADVANCINGIN STATISTICAL MODELLING USING R (April 2017) #ADVR
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/advancing-statistical-modelling-using-r-advr05/

7.	GEOMETRICMORPHOMETRICS USING R (June 2017) #GMMR
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/geometric-morphometrics-using-r-gmmr01/

8.	MULTIVARIATEANALYSIS OF SPATIAL ECOLOGICAL DATA (June 2017) #MASE
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/multivariate-analysis-of-spatial-ecological-data-using-r-mase01/

9.	TIMESERIES MODELS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING R (JUNE 2017 (#TSME)

10.	BIOINFORMATICSFOR GENETICISTS AND BIOLOGISTS (July 2017) #BIGB
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/bioinformatics-for-geneticists-and-biologists-bigb02/

11.	SPATIALANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R (August 2017) #SPAE
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/spatial-analysis-ecological-data-using-r-spae05/

12.	ECOLOGICALNICHE MODELLING (October 2017) #ENMR
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/ecological-niche-modelling-using-r-enmr01/

13.	INTRODUCTIONTO BIOINFORMATICS USING LINUX (October 2017) #IBUL
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-bioinformatics-using-linux-ibul02/

14.	STRUCTURALEQUATION MODELLING FOR ECOLOGISTS AND EVOLUTIONARY 
BIOLOGISTS(October 2017) #SEMR

15.	GENETICDATA ANALYSIS USING R (October 2017 TBC) #GDAR

16.	LANDSCAPE(POPULATION) GENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R (November 2017 
TBC)#LNDG
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/landscape-genetic-data-analysis-using-r-lndg02/

17.	APPLIEDBAYESIAN MODELLING FOR ECOLOGISTS AND EPIDEMIOLOGISTS 
(November2017) #ABME
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/applied-bayesian-modelling-ecologists-epidemiologists-abme03/

18.	INTRODUCTIONTO METHODS FOR REMOTE SENSING (November 2017) #IRMS

19.	INTRODUCTIONTO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (November 2017) #IPYB
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-python-for-biologists-ipyb04/

20.	DATAVISUALISATION AND MANIPULATION USING PYTHON (December 2017) 
#DVMP
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/data-visualisation-and-manipulation-using-python-dvmp01/

21.	ADVANCINGIN STATISTICAL MODELLING USING R (December 2017) #ADVR
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/advancing-statistical-modelling-using-r-advr07/

22.	INTRODUCTIONTO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL MODELLING (January 2018) #IBHM
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-bayesian-hierarchical-modelling-using-r-ibhm02/

23.	PHYLOGENETICDATA ANALYSIS USING R (TBC) #PHYL

OliverHooker PhD.
PRstatistics

3/1
128Brunswick Street
Glasgow
G11TF

+44(0) 7966500340

www.prstatistics.com
www.prstatistics.com/organiser/oliver-hooker/

OliverHooker <oliverhooker@prstatistics.com>

