SMBE 2017 Symposium "Convergent evolution"

We are pleased to announce a symposium on "Convergent evolution" at SMBE
2017 in Austin, Texas, this July. Our invited speakers are Jay Storz
(University of Nebraska-Lincoln), Matthew Hahn (Indiana University), and
Sarah Kocher (Princeton University). Abstract submissions for contributed
talks and posters are welcome and due on 1 February 2017. Please use the
following link for submission: http://www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/. Note
that abstract submission is possible prior to registration for the
conference.

Symposium description:

***
Convergent evolution, wherein species independently evolve substantially
similar phenotypes in response to similar selective pressures, is a
potentially powerful criterion to identify genotypes underlying adaptive
evolution. The on-going boom in comparative genomics has renewed interest
in the molecular and genetic basis of convergent phenotypes. Recent
progress in the field has demonstrated the extent of convergence in a wide
variety of contexts, from microbes to vertebrates, and resulting from
conditions including environmental shifts, sensory systems, and biochemical
challenges. In addition, whole-population sequencing and in vitro evolution
has provided evidence of the dependence of convergence on the nature of the
selective pressure. At a higher level, the study of convergence is
outlining the constraints on adaptive evolution and deepening our
understanding of natural selection. In light of the increasing amount of
genomic data available, the field will benefit from a discussion of the
challenges in robustly identifying and testing apparent cases of
convergence, with one major challenge being distinguishing adaptive
convergence at the sequence level from chance events. This symposium will
present a balanced program of historical evolution, in vitro evolution,
methodology and theory in convergent evolution. Talks will span the full
spectrum of potential convergence ranging across molecules, networks, and
phenotypes.
***

SMBE 2017 will offer child care support during the conference (
http://www.smbe2017.org/destination/childcare-at-smbe/), and you can apply
for child care awards as well (http://www.smbe.org/smbe/awar
ds/ChildCareTravelAward).

SMBE 2017 will take place in Austin, Texas, from 2 to 6 July 2017.

Thanks,

Tim Sackton (tsackton@g.harvard.edu)
Nathan Clark (nclark@pitt.edu)

"tsackton@g.harvard.edu" <tsackton@g.harvard.edu>

