SMBE 2017 Symposium "Systems approaches to behavior"

We welcome abstract submissions for a symposium on "Systems approaches to
behavior" at SMBE 2017 in Austin, TX.  The symposium will feature talks by
Lauren O'Connell (Harvard University) and Hans Hofmann (UT Austin).  The
deadline for abstract submissions is February 1: http://www.smbe2017.org/

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact Julia Saltz
(julia.b.saltz@rice.edu)

Symposium summary:
Understanding the diversity of animal behaviors and how this diversity
evolves is an intricate challenge because behavior uniquely combines inputs
across biological scales-from genes, transcripts, and proteins interacting
at tissue, organ, and whole organismal levels to environmental factors such
as other individuals via social interactions. The goal of our symposium is
to bring together researchers working at the interface of multiple levels
of behavioral and molecular analysis to highlight how systems-level
approaches can lead to new insights about behavioral evolution. Our
symposium will be timely because high-dimensional "-omics" data,
representing functional information at multiple biological scales, is
rapidly becoming available; but the evolutionary relevance of such
information, particularly for highly-plastic phenotypes like behavior,
remains unclear. Our symposium will contribute to building an integrated
conceptual framework for thinking about the causes of variation in behavior
at a systems level and how such systems can evolve. Our invited speakers
will provide "worked examples" illustrating how different molecular levels,
neurobiology, and ecology can be integrated to understand why behavior
varies within individuals, among individuals, and among species.

-- 
Julia B. Saltz
Assistant Professor
Biosciences at Rice University
6100 Main Street, MS-170
Houston, TX 77005
julia.b.saltz@rice.edu
Saltzlab.wordpress.com

jbsaltz@gmail.com

