Galaxy Admin Training
  November 7-11, 2016
  Salt Lake City Utah
  https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/Events/AdminTraining2016

----

The first Galaxy Admin Training workshop will be held November 7-11 in Salt
Lake City, Utah (the week before Supercomputing'16 also meets in Salt
Lake).  The workshop offers Basic and Advanced sessions.

Galaxy is an open web based platform for biomedical data integration and
analysis. It is deployed at large and small organizations around the world
and used in a broad range of biomedical research domains, and across the
tree of life.  Galaxy enables life science researchers to perform their own
data analysis without having to learn command line interfaces or Linux
package management.  Galaxy transparently records all analysis steps and
eases workflow reuse and sharing.  If your organization is looking for how
to empower your researchers, then please consider attending one or both
sessions.

Participants will learn how to install, configure, customize, and extend
their own Galaxy servers. Topics include tool configuration, authentication
and user management, using heterogeneous storage and compute services, and
many other topics that will enable you to get your own Galaxy server up and
running, performing well, and used by your community.

Registration is now open, but space is limited.  Early registration ends
September 19.  Participants can register for one or both sessions. Please
review each session's prerequisites before registering.

Galaxy Admin Training 2016 is hosted by the University of Utah Center for
High Performance Computing (CHPC),  USTAR Center for Genetic Discovery
(UCGD), the Department of Biomedical Informatics and the Clinical &
Translational Science Biomedical Informatics Core (CCTS BMIC) at the
University of Utah.

We hope to see you in Salt Lake!

The Galaxy Team

PS: Please share this flier (
https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/Events/AdminTraining2016/Publicity) with any
individuals or groups who might be interested in this event.

-- 
http://galaxyproject.org/
http://getgalaxy.org/
http://usegalaxy.org/
https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/

Dave Clements <clements@galaxyproject.org>

