The Smithsonian Institute for Biodiversity Genomics and BGI are
co-organizing the inaugural Global Biodiversity Genomics Conference in
Washington, D.C. February 21-23, 2017 at the Smithsonian=E2=80=99s National
Museum of Natural History.

The Global Biodiversity Genomics Conference will bring together thought
leaders, researchers, and academics who are leading the charge in applying
genomic technologies to understand all of life.  The conference will be
one of the first to address the transition from a scientific emphasis on
human genomics to one on global biodiversity genomics, as investigations
in this arena are rapidly on the increase.  The meeting will also focus on
interactions and synergies among biodiversity researchers, computational
scientists, sequencing technologists, and software developers.

The conference will have sessions that cover a broad array of relevant
topics, including specific evolutionary and ecological questions and
the genomics of broad taxonomic groups (e.g. plants, vertebrates,
invertebrates, and microbes) as well as critical technological and
analytical tools.

The conference is being planned in conjunction with major genomics
initiatives, such as G10K (https://genome10k.soe.ucsc.edu/), GIGA
(http://giga-cos.org/), i5K (http://arthropodgenomes.org/wiki/i5K),
and the Global Genome Initiative (http://ggi.si.edu/).  Pre conference
activities will commence Feb. 20.

Attendance will be capped at 450 participants.  Further announcements
providing details of additional sponsors, activities, and registration
procedures will be available at .

For more information and early registration information visit:
http://biogenomics2017.org/

or contact Warren Johnson at:contactbiogenomics@si.edu

JohnsonWE@si.edu

