On behalf of the organizing comiitee of the Latin American Society of
Developmental Biology (LASDB) Meeting it is our pleasure to invite you
the the IX LASDB meeting to be held in MedellÃn, Colombia from October
9^th - 13^th, 2017.  The Meeting will convene in Colombia for the first
time, a megabiodiverse country at the core of the Americas. Late
abstract submissions for POSTERS only now open.

Topics in the plenary sessions include:

- Animal and plant developmental biology

- Stem cells, Neurobiology, Medicine and Development

- Post-embryonic development and regeneration

- Evo-Devo and Next Generation Sequencing

Confirmed speakers include:

Nobel Awardee

Sir John Gurdon, Gurdon Institute, UK; University of Cambridge

The stability and reversal of cell differentiation

Karen Sears, University of Illinois, USA

>From genome to phenome: The developmental basis of mammalian variation

Enrique Amaya, The University of Manchester, UK

A conserved role for reactive oxygen species during early embryonic
development and appendage regeneration

Maria Barna, Stanford University, USA

Bio-imaging of tissue patterning and cellular communication during
embryonic development

Jeremiah Smith, University of Kentucky , USA

Developmentally programmed rearrangement of the lamprey genome

Sylvain Marcellini, Universidad de Concepcion, Chile

Junk or func? Contribution of mobile elements to the osteblastic gene
regulatory network

Siobhan Brady University of California Davis, USA

Regulation of root morphogenesis and cell type development in the face
of a changing environment

Joseph Arboleda- Velasquez, Schepens Eye Research Institute, USA

Therapeutic antibody targeting of Notch3 signaling prevents mural cell
loss in CADASIL.

Jesus Chimal-Monroy, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico

Digit patterning is controlled by an antagonism between retinoic acid
and TGF beta

Karen Echeverri, University of Minnesota, USA

Molecular mechanisms of spinal cord regeneration

Randall Voss, University of Kentucky, USA.

Transcriptional Investigation of Positional Memory in Axolotl Limbs

Rodrigo Nunes da Fonseca, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil

Evolution and multiple roles of the Pancrustacea specific transcription
factor zeldain insects

Miguel Concha, Laboratory of Experimental Ontogeny, Chile

Novel roles of extra-embryonic tissue in directing early embryo
morphogenesis in vertebrates

Patrizia Ferretti, University College London, Institute of Child
Health, UK

Stem cells in health and disease: from animal to human models.

Robb Krumlauf, Stowers Institute for Medical Research, USA

Hox genes: Regulating the balance between pluripotency and
differentiation

Veronica Di Stilio, University of Washington, USA

Reconstructing the ancestral role of flowering meristem identity genes
in a non-flowering plant

Brigitte Galliot, Universite de Geneve, Switzerland

Regeneration and slow aging, what role for autophagy?

Marianne Bronner, Caltech, USA

Gene regulatory and signaling events in neural crest development

Vivian Irish, Yale University, USA

Petal development: a twist in fate

Luis Alfredo Cruz Ramirez, CINVESTAV. Langebio, Mexico

Unraveling the role of RETINOBLASTOMA-RELATED in Stem Cell maintenance
and Asymmetric Cell Divission along land plant phylogeny

Igor Schneider, Universidade Federal de Para, Brazil

Deep evolutionary origin of tetrapod limb regeneration

Lee Niswander, University of Colorado, USA

Using mouse and human IPSC modeling to reveal the causes of neural tube
defects

Carole La Bonne, Northwestern University, USA

Stem Cells, Gene Regulatory Networks and the Evolution of Vertebrates

Robert Reed, Cornell University, USA

Developmental genetics of butterfly wing pattern evolution

Robert Sablowski, John Innes Centre, UK

Cell size regulation and organ patterning in the shoot meristem

Maria Angela Nieto, Instituto de Neurociencias, Alicante, Spain

Epithelial plasticity in health and disease

Jose GarcÃa- Arraras, University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras

Understanding regeneration; a visceral reaction

Cristina Ferrandiz Instituto de BiologÃa Molecular y Celular de
Plantas, UPV, CSIC, Spain

A stylish story of carpel evolution

Claudia Torres Farfan, Universidad Austral de Chile

Light pollution during gestation induce maternal chronodisruption and
long-term effect in the offspring, increasing the risk of chronic
disease.

Roberto Mayor, University College London, UK

Chemical and mechanical cues control collective cell migration

Katia del Rio- Tsonis, Miami University, USA

Epigenetic signatures during chick retina regeneration

Alejandro Sanchez Alvarado, Stowers Institute for Medical Research, USA

The life cycle of regeneration

Joachim Wittbrodt, Centre for Organismal Studies - Heidelberg,
Germany

Activating the regenerative potential of Muller glia cells in a
regeneration-deficient retina

For more information visit our webpage http://www.lasdb2017.com/

For specific inquires please contact Natalia Pabon-Mora (Universidad
de Antioquia) at: lucia.pabon@udea.edu.co

For logistic aspects please contact Laura Norena at:
laura.norena@contacticacomunicaciones.com

We hope to see you in Medellin!

NATALIA LUCIA PABON MORA <lucia.pabon@udea.edu.co>

