Conference related to the Programming for Evolutionary Biology course

When: September 9th - 12th 2016
Location: Belgrad, Serbia

Registration now open

Detailed information about the conference content and how to register:
http://pebconference.info/

The Programming for Evolutionary Biology (PEB) conference brings
together scientists broadly interested in applying bioinformatic tools
to answer evolutionary and ecological questions. It aims to serve as a
platform for discussing common programming pitfalls encountered during
research and features workshops to further develop participants'
bioinformatic abilities. This year, we are fortunate to be joined by an
outstanding list of Plenary Speakers.

The conference is an offshoot of the Programming for Evolutionary
Biology course held annually at the University of Leipzig. The course
teaches the essential background skills required to perform
computational analyses using next-generation sequencing (NGS) data with
a focus on solving research questions related to genomics and
evolution. Alumni from the Class of 2014 organized the inaugural PEB
conference in May 2015 at CIBIO (Vila do Conde, Portugal) in order to
discuss their research and overcoming technical challenges. The
conference was a spectacular success and so this year the PEB community
is pleased to announce that we will be accepting applications from the
broader public! We welcome all speakers interested in the application
of NGS methods in ecological and evolutionary studies. The second PEB
conference will be held from September 7th to 12th, 2016 in Belgrad,
Serbia.

Katja Nowick <nowick@bioinf.uni-leipzig.de>

