Conference: Groningen.ESEB2017_Major_transitions_in_evolution.Aug20-25

Dear evoldir members,

We would like to announce the symposium [S8] “Major transitions in
evolution” at the upcoming ESEB 2017 conference and would like to invite
abstract submissions.

This symposium focuses on major evolutionary transitions to eusociality and
multicellularity.

Complex life has evolved through a series of evolutionary transitions in
individuality. During these transitions, existing individuals merged to
become parts of a new higher-level individual, which consists of
specialised subunits that divide labour. Recent years have seen major
advances in the field that were enabled by experiments examining the origin
of chemical replicators capable of Darwinian evolution, the evolution of
simple multicellular organisms from single-celled ancestors in test tubes,
solitary organisms attaining a group-living lifestyle, the origin and
evolution of digital organisms in silico, and work examining how symbioses
can lead to the origin of new organisms. Moreover, some of the exciting
discoveries made in this field sparked intensive debate among philosophers
on how organisms should be defined.

Drawing on this diverse work, our symposium will highlight recent
developments in this rapidly progressing area. By bringing together
empirical, theoretical, and philosophical contributions, this symposium
will not only facilitate discussions among scientists that otherwise would
not meet, but will also help identify priorities for future research.

* Invited speakers:

Richard Michod (University of Arizona)

http://michodlab.arizona.edu

Silvia de Monte (Ecole Normale Supérieure Paris)

http://www.biologie.ens.fr/eceem/demonte.html

Ellen Clarke (Oxford) http://ellenclarke.net

* Organisers:

Abel Bernadou (University of Regensburg)

http://www.uni-regensburg.de/biologie-vorklinische-medizin/evolutionsbiologie/team/dr-abel-bernadou/index.html

Christian Kost (University of Osnabrück)

http://www.ice.mpg.de/ext/index.php?id=experimental-evolution

Boris Kramer (University of Groningen)

https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Boris_Kramer

Karen Meusemann (University of Freiburg)

http://www.bio1.uni-freiburg.de/oeko/evo-eco/eco-lab-members/karen-meusemann

William Ratcliff (Georgia Tech)

http://www.ratclifflab.biology.gatech.edu

* Deadline for submission for abstracts for contributed talks and posters
is 10th January 2017. More information can be found at
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-/.

We look forward to receiving your submissions and to seeing you at the
conference and our symposium.

Christian Kost <christiankost@gmail.com>

