Registration is now open for an ASBMB Special Symposium on gene expression
and evolution. The symposium brings together groups interested in
mechanistic and evolutionary aspects of gene regulation. A preliminary
program is posted and additional talks and posters will be selected from
submitted abstracts.

http://www.asbmb.org/SpecialSymposia/2017/geneexpression/registration/
http://www.asbmb.org/SpecialSymposia/2017/geneexpression/program/
http://www.asbmb.org/SpecialSymposia/2017/geneexpression/abstracts/

EVOLUTION AND CORE PROCESSES IN GENE EXPRESSION

July 13 - 16, 2017, Kansas City, MO
Organized by: Julia Zeitlinger, Stowers Inst., David Arnosti, Michigan
State Univ., Justin Fay, Washington Univ. in St. Louis

MEETING DESCRIPTION
Evolutionary processes operate at all levels of gene expression, and
increasingly detailed mechanistic understanding has provided rich hunting
grounds for pathways and processes which underlie evolutionary variation,
providing the molecular explanation for the beaks of Darwin’s finches, for
example. Most studies that have tracked down detailed molecular changes
linked to the evolution of morphological variation have highlighted the
importance of cis-­‐regulatory variation, as well as changes to sequence-­‐
specific transcription factors. Such changes are expected to have less
pleiotropic effects than alterations in the core transcriptional machinery,
however new evidence points to high levels of complexity in what was
initially assumed to be conserved core transcription machinery, suggesting
that variation in these components are likely to play similar roles in
evolutionary variation. Similarly, genetic variation in core machinery for
protein translation has been shown to be associated with a variety of human
diseases, providing a glimpse of the likely variation that underlies
population-­‐level differences relevant to studies of “personalized
genomics” in humans.

fayjustin@gmail.com

