"Genetic data analysis/exploration using R"

Delivered by Dr. Thibaut Jombart

http://prstatistics.com/course/genetic-data-analysis-using-r-gdar/

This course will run from 16th - 20th August, Millport Field Station,
Ilse of Cumbrae, Scotland

This course will provide an extensive overview of exploratory methods
for the analysis of genetic data using the R software and aim to equip
participants with powerful resources for tackling increasingly common
challenges in genetic data analysis. It is aimed at PhD students,
research postgraduates, and practicing academics as well as persons in
industry working with genetic data in fields such as molecular ecology,
evolutionary biology, and phylogenetics. This course will provide a
comprehensive introduction to various statistical approaches for the
analysis of genetic data.

Course content is as follows

Day 1 Introduction to phylogenetic reconstruction

- Lecture 1a: Reconstructing phylogenies from genetic sequence data.
Three main approaches covered: distance-based phylogenies; maximum
parsimony; and likelihood-based approaches.

- Lecture 1b: Short R refresher.

- Practical 1: Phylogenetic reconstruction using R. Three main
approaches plus rooting a tree; assessing/testing for a molecular
clock; and bootstrapping.

Main packages: ape, phangorn.

Day 2 Introduction to multivariate analysis of genetic data

- Lecture 2: Key concepts in multivariate analysis. Focus on using
factorial methods for genetic data analysis.

- Practical 2: Basics of multivariate analysis of genetic data in R.
Topics include: data handling, population genetic tests of population
structure (PCA, PCoA).

Main packages: adegenet, ade4, ape.

Day 3 Exploring group diversity

- Lecture 3: Approaches to identifying and describing genetic
clusters. Topics include:   hierarchical clustering, K-means,
population-level multivariate analysis (between-group-PCA, DA, DAPC).

- Practical 3: Applying the approaches covered in morning lecture and
emphasising their strengths and weaknesses.

Main packages: adegenet, ade4.

Day 4 Spatial genetic structure

- Lecture 4: Discussing the origin and significance of spatial
genetic patterns, and how to test or them.

- Practical 4: Visualising and analysing spatial genetic data.
Topics: spatial density estimates, Moran/Mantel tests, mapping
principal components in PCA, spatial PCA.

- Main packages: adegenet, glmnet.

Main packages: adegenet, glmnet.

Day 5 Using R for reproducible science

- Lecture 5: Using R for reproducible science.

- Practical 5: Practical session based on morning lecture

- Main packages: knitr, Sweave, rmarkdown

- Option to discuss own data (time permitting)

Please email any inquiries to oliverhooker@prstatistics.com or visit
our website www.prstatistics.com

Please feel free to distribute this material anywhere you feel is
suitable

Upcoming courses - email for details oliverhooker@prstatistics.com

ADVANCING IN STATISTICAL MODELLING USING R (May)

TIMES SERIES DATA ANALYSIS FOR ECOLOGISTS AND CLIMATOLOGISTS (May)

INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (May)

ADVANCES IN SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF MULTIVARIATE ECOLOGICAL DATA (July)

ADVANCES IN DNA TAXONOMY USING R (August)

INTRODUCTION TO BIOINFORMAITCS USING LINUX (August)

INTRODUCTION TO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL MODELLING (August)

MODEL BASED MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R (October)

LANDSCAPE (POPULATION) GENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R (October)

APPLIED BAYESIAN MODELLING FOR ECOLOGISTS AND EPIDEMIOLOGISTS (October)

PHYLOGENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R (November)

SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGIC AL DATA USING R (November)

Dates still to be confirmed - email for details
oliverhooker@prstatistics.com

STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR, SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R

INTRODUCTION TO R AND STATISTICS FOR BIOLOGISTS

BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOLOGISTS

Oliver Hooker

PR Statistics

Oliver Hooker

PR~Statistics

"oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk" <oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk>

