International Conference on Holobionts,

Paris (Natural History National Museum), April 19-21, 2017

It is becoming increasingly clear that the development, nutrition,
physiology and health of most organisms are influenced by the complex
microbial communities they host, hereby shaping their ecology and
evolution. Biology is indeed undergoing a paradigm shift, where
individual phenotypes are seen as a result of the combined expression
of the host and associated microbe genomes, leading to the
popularization of the holobiont concept (the host and its microbiota)
and the hologenome (the collective genomes of a holobiont). Ecological
and technical advances, especially in next generation sequencing
technologies, have greatly contributed to this conceptual shift,
thereby revealing the diversity and roles of the microbes hosted by
diverse organisms, from people and plants, to sponges and insects. The
scientific community has now recognized that the host organisms cannot
be studied without taking resident microbiomes into account, making
holobiont research imperative across numerous fields of the life and
medical sciences.

The objective of the International Conference on Holobionts, Paris 2017
is to, for the first time, bring scientists together who are interested
in holobiont systems and their study. This conference will highlight
major advances in defining the key roles of host-borne microbiota in
the ecology and evolution of higher organisms and the potential
implications for human health, food production and ecosystem
functioning. In addition, the conference will offer a platform for
debate related to the definition, assembly and evolution of holobionts.
By bringing a range of holobiont researchers together, the
International Conference on Holobionts seeks to help consolidate the
field, facilitate exchange of knowledge across systems and approaches
and stimulate further developments in this emerging discipline.

Scientific program. This conference will address the following topics:

1. Holobionts and evolution

2. Emerging approaches to holobiont research

3. Microbiota and host health

4. Mechanisms for holobiont assembly

5. Metabolic interactions between host and microbiota

For each topic, we encourage oral and poster communications on
holobiont systems from different perspectives including theoretical,
empirical, fundamental and applied researches.

Provisional list of invited speakers (to be updated soon):

Thierry Heulin (CEA Cadarache, France), confirmed

Nancy Moran (University of Texas, Austin, Texas, USA), confirmed

Jeroen Raes (Vrije Universiteit, Brussel, Belgium), confirmed

Eugene Rosenberg (Tel Aviv University, Israel), confirmed

Paul Schulze-Lefert (Max Planck Institute Koln, Germany), confirmed

Practical aspects. This conference will last 2.5 days, from April 19^th
2 p.m. to from April 21^st 4 p.m. It will take place right in the
center of Paris, in the heart of "Quartier Latin" in the
prestigious Grand Amphitheatre of the Natural History National Museum
(https://www.mnhn.fr/fr). Note that for space constraints, we won't
be able to take more than 300 registrations. Registrations will open by
November 15, 2016 and be closed by January 30, 2017. A dedicated
website for registration and practical information is under
construction at https://symposium.inra.fr/holobiont-paris2017.

Organizing institutions: CNRS (Centre National de la Recherche
Scientifique), INRA (Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique),
MNHN (Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle). This conference is a
joint initiative of the Groupe de Recherche en Genomique
Environnementale (GDR GE) and the INRA Metaprogramme Meta-omiques et
ecosystemes microbiens (MEM).

Members of the Scientific Committee: Bourguet-Kondracki Marie-Lise
(CNRS, MNHN Paris), Bourtzis Kostas (FAO/IAEA, Vienna, Austria), Buee
Marc (INRA Nancy, France), Faure Denis (CNRS Orsay, France), Heulin
Thierry (CNRS Marseille, France), Joly Dominique (CNRS Paris, France),
Kowalchuk George (Utrecht University, The Netherlands), Marchesi Julian
(Imperial College, UK), Medigue Claudine (CNRS Genoscope Evry,
France), Mougel Christophe (INRA Rennes, France), Selosse Marc-Andre
(MNHN Paris), Simon Jean-Christophe (INRA Rennes, France),
Vandenkoornhuyse Philippe, (University Rennes 1, France)

Marc-Andr√© SELOSSE <ma.selosse@wanadoo.fr>

