Abstract submission is open for our symposium: =93*S3: **Network-based
approaches in evolutionary biology and medicine*=94 planned for the *Europe=
an
Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25th
August, 2017. *

http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-/

*Symposium information*: Network theory, with a long history in mathematics
and computer science, is starting to play an exciting role in evolutionary
biology across multiple levels of biological organization, from cellular to
ecological systems. Relevant and timely examples include: the study of
diseases as perturbations in complex intracellular networks rather than
single-gene abnormalities (Barabasi 2011), the spatial and functional
interactions of microbial communities over time (Baldassano & Bassett,
2016), epidemic outbreaks in animal networks (Shrestha 2015, Lofgren 2014),
and dynamic interactions between large-scale neural circuits (Shi Gu, 2015,
Bassett 2011), to name only a few. This symposium will bring together
scientists working at the interface of network science and evolutionary
biology with two primary aims: (1) to highlight the empirical and
theoretical advances made by applying network topology and dynamics theory
to biological data and evolutionary questions, and (2) to discuss the
design of new evolutionary network models and the integration of network
theory with classic evolutionary models to answer fundamental questions in
biology. As methodologies evolve, greater scientific interaction at the
interface of network theory and biological systems will be essential for
predicting temporal, spatially embedded, multi-scale networked evolutionary
systems and establishing an integrative approach to evolutionary population
dynamics and disease.

Organizers: Oana Carja, Nicole Creanza

Invited speakers: Danielle Bassett, Laura Hindersin

Please contact Oana Carja (ocarja@sas.upenn.edu) with further questions.

oana.carja@gmail.com

