Dear all,

we are delighted to invite submissions to our symposium "S17: Evolutionary
causes and consequences of variation in recombination rate" to be held
at the European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting in Groningen,
Netherlands from 20-25th August, 2017.

http://www.eseb2017.nl/=20

http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s17-evolutionary-causes-and-consequ/

Abstract: Recombination is paradoxical, it can create novel genetic
combinations that natural selection can act on, and thus facilitate
adaptation, but it can also break apart favourable combinations of alleles.
In addition, recombination can play a critical role during meiosis, with
recombination events regulated to ensure accurate segregation of
chromosomes. Thus, tight regulation of recombination is expected, but
variable rates of recombination may be favoured in different environments
or contexts. While the role of recombination in the evolution of sex has
been the focus of much empirical and theoretical work, investigation on how
conflicting selection pressures are resolved, how recombination rate
evolves, and what impact this has on evolutionary processes within sexually
reproducing organisms has received less attention. Recent advances in DNA
sequencing and bioinformatics has provided unprecedented opportunities to
characterise variation in recombination rate. Now is a pertinent time to
highlight (i) rapidly developing approaches to estimate recombination rate
in the genomics era and (ii) our growing understanding of the causes and
consequences of variation in recombination rates; including how
recombination rate variation responds to selection, how recombination
varies between individuals, sexes, populations, species and in response to
the environment, and how recombination influences the processes of
speciation and adaptation.

Organizers: Philine Feulner, Susan Johnston, Anna Santure, Carole Smadja
and Jessica Stapley

Invited speakers: Abraham Korol
(https://scholar.google.co.il/citations?hl=3Den&user=3Dfoio3YsAAAAJ&view_op=
=3Dlist_works&sortby=3Dpubdate)
and Irene Tiemann-Boege
(https://scholar.google.co.il/citations?user=3DO6lGxtUAAAAJ&hl=3Den)

Please contact Anna Santure (asanture@gmail.com) if you have any questions!

asanture@gmail.com

