2017 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2017)
26-30 June 2017
Montpellier, France
https://gcc2017.sciencesconf.org/
https://gcc2017.sched.com/
https://galaxyproject.org/
--

The Galaxy Community Conference (GCC) brings together researchers working
in and supporting data intensive life science research. There is no better
place to share your work and learn from others that are addressing diverse
questions and facing common challenges in data intensive biology. GCC
participants work across the tree of life, around the world, and represent
universities, research organizations, industry, medical schools and
research hospitals.

GCC2017 will be in Montpellier, France, 26-30 June and features two days of
presentations, discussions, poster sessions, lightning talks, computer
demos, keynotes, and birds-of-a-feather meetups, all about data-intensive
biology and the tools that support it. GCC2017 also features data and
coding hackathons, and two days of training covering 16 different topics.
GCC2017 will be held at Le Corum Conference Centre in the heart of
Montpellier, just 10km from the Mediterranean.

** Registration closes 16 June.  Costs start at 75â‚¬ per day for postdocs
and students. **

If you work in data intensive life science research then GCC2017 is an
ideal opportunity to present your work. Lightning talk and
birds-of-a-feather submission are still open, and there is limited space
available for late poster and computer demo submissions.

About Galaxy:
Galaxy is an open, web-based platform for data-intensive biomedical
analysis used by tens of thousands of researchers around the world.  It
supports ad hoc exploration and analysis through scalable and repeatable
data analysis pipelines for large research studies. Galaxy is available in
over 90 free and publicly accessible web servers, on public and national
cloud infrastructures, and is locally installed at hundreds, if not
thousands, of research organisations around the world.

We hope to see you in Montpellier!

Au revoir,

The GCC2017 Organising Committee

Dave Clements <clements@galaxyproject.org>

